hey you guys what's up and welcome back
to the small addicts youtube channel
today i want to share with you guys the
top 10 things
i wish i knew prior to starting my
fitness journey and you guys
there was a lot of stuff like a lot
that i wish i knew there was so much
stuff that would have just helped me get
started quicker
and so i'm just gonna share all of them
with you guys today and hopefully
that'll help you
skip a few of those steps that cause
confusion
and frustration so you can just start
getting results
so without further ado let's hop into it
okay starting with
number 10 and we'll count down to the
most important thing i guess
would be strength training now prior to
starting my
fitness journey i only knew athletics
and i only knew my sport i had never
trained intentionally
for any certain result other than to be
good at my sport
so going into the gym was new territory
for me
i usually would go to the gym just with
my team and lift weights but i i had a
trainer i had no idea what i was doing
back then i'm so long ago
almost 10 years ago now and i thought
that if i wanted to get in the best
shape of my life
i would need to go do lots of cardio
and restrict my calories and strength
training was just not even on my horizon
i thought okay hit workouts
cardio i'm ready to do this and strength
training is
really what i needed to be doing in
order to build muscle
so that i could have that tone and
definition for me i wanted to look
really
toned and in shape and what i did not
understand back then was that that tone
comes from muscle and you have to lift
weights in order to have that muscular
tone and you don't have to look bulky or
muscular
you just need to lift weights so you can
have a little bit of muscle so that
you can actually have that toned look
and look
more curvier as i guess you know it
helps add curves but also
definition so then that number one thing
or number 10 would be on the list
was i wish i had skipped all those years
doing cardio
and just running away tush off and just
gone into the gym and picked up weights
even though i remember being very afraid
of weights thinking that
they would make me bulky thinking yeah
this isn't for me
and this was back before weights were
cool i feel like weights are a little
cooler now
but weights and strength training is
definitely the way to get started if
you're looking to have that toned look
okay this naturally leads me to the next
one number nine out of things i wish
that i knew before starting my journey
and that was
they go in hand in hand but doing too
much cardio
is not going to help you get to your
goals so i had this whole face where i
did tons of cardio i get i got up every
morning i ran
i'd run at night i just did tons of
cardio and what ended up happening is
that i just looked kind of like
soft like it just looked soft but i
didn't have that
that toned strong look that i was going
for
so it was very hard for me even though
it seems obvious now
to understand what was going on back
then i thought okay i must not be doing
enough cardio believe it or not i
thought i'm not doing enough
i guess i have to do more cardio because
i'm just not looking the way i want to
look yet
we're feeling the way i want to feel yet
i was feeling weak tired
no motivation i mean i was totally burnt
out because running is exhausting and
not enjoyable for me so that would be
number nine was
and they do go hand in hand i was
approaching it wrong thinking
that my lack of results was coming from
me not doing good enough instead of the
program
not being the right program number eight
would be that i wish i knew that doing
random workouts that i found
on instagram and youtube was not going
to help me achieve the goal and
i really needed a structured progressive
program to get me to where i wanted to
go i
would do you know search on youtube find
a hit workout
and i even had a sticky note back then
this was
end of high school college years i had
the sticky note and it had links to all
my favorite youtube
videos for workouts and i would create
my own program based on the the workouts
and i thought okay if i just do these
random workouts
every day then i'll get the results i
want
there's a few problems with this first
of all random workouts
get you random results for real they do
not get you
a specific result if you want a specific
result you need a specific program to
address that and that includes
your nutrition and your fitness and i
was on a mess of a
lack of program basically i would do
these random youtube workouts and then i
would try to eat healthy
and i had no idea what that meant in my
mind i had a definition of healthy it
was not based in anything real
or you know true about nutrition or the
science or anything it was just okay i
gotta eat the salads
and you know be eat clean whatever that
meant
and do lots of cardio and do lots of
these random youtube workouts which
tended to be hit workouts so high
intensity interval training or cardio
based
like burpees that type of stuff and
you do need a structured progressive
program to get to where you want to go
and that means having a program that
has built into it progressive overload
that's when you increase the intensity
usually you know by the way of
increasing your weights or decreasing
rest periods there's lots of ways to use
progressive overload but
you need a program that's going to scale
with you towards your end goal
and that's why by the way the petite
power program is so great because it has
a very specific goal
and it helps you achieve that over 12
weeks every week is progressing you
towards that destination
in case you don't know what it is by the
way petite power is our 12-week fitness
and nutrition transformation program
for short women and it's progressive
it's
built and created and designed to take
you through that transformation
so you don't have to just do random work
one-off workouts here and there
any trainer any person who knows what
they're talking about will always tell
you okay
you know are you doing random workouts
are you following a program and if
people say
i'm i'm not getting results but i'm just
doing whatever they're going to say okay
you need to find a good program to get
yourself onto
so you can start to work towards
something so i wish i knew that i wish
someone had told me that early on that
this idea of just doing whatever i found
on youtube was just not going gonna cut
it
okay number seven i wish that i hadn't
spent so much of my energy focusing on
the scale
instead of my body composition and i'll
break this down for you guys
we often think that our results are
going to come
sort of in conjunction with the scale
decreasing right
and if you have a lot of weight to lose
then yes you might have a specific
goal for the scale to go down however if
you're sitting at a
healthy weight or weight that you're
comfortable with maybe you want to lose
five pounds but
if there's not a crazy amount of weight
that you want to lose
you don't need to be focusing on the
scale you need to be focusing on your
body composition that is your fat to
muscle
ratio and i was obsessed with the scale
i
was 100 and between 112 ish around there
when i was doing all that cardio and i
kept just pushing the scale to go down
more cardio push it down push it down
but you can lose muscle from running
and fat and end up looking soft like i
did
and not achieving your goals when really
if i had just
thrown the scale out for a bit and
focused on building muscle and losing
fat
i might weigh more at the end of the day
maybe i'm 115
but i would look totally different and
that's exactly
what happened when i finally understood
the science behind
body composition i had in 12 weeks i had
my first body recomposition
which i've talked about a lot but i'll
show you a photo here and
i was heavier in my more fit picture
and that scared me at first right but
once i realized okay i'm going for
my my composition i want to change the
composition of what i look like i don't
care about the overall number
that unlocked a lot for me so if you're
around a weight that you're comfortable
with
and you want to just change how you look
and honestly how you feel
because you're going to feel stronger
you're going to have more energy it's
going to be a much healthier place to be
in than
depriving yourself and doing tons of
cardio then i definitely recommend
questioning why you're so tied to the
scale and maybe you don't even need the
scale
unless you have a really concerted
weight loss goal the other thing i'll
say about scales when you're weighing
yourself you're weighing everything
you're weighing your body fat right
you're also weighing
your muscle you're weighing your bones
and you're weighing your water
and your water can fluctuate a lot on a
day-to-day basis hormones can cause
fluctuations it's really just not the
most reliable thing to track your
progress on
and the number on the scale is not going
to tell you anything
about the actual composition of your
body so
it's really important to have that
mindset switch that i don't care about
the scale anymore i care about
body composition i don't care about my
weight anymore i care about my
metabolism
and that is going to be a huge
breakthrough for you in terms of
making progress okay number six i always
thought that if i wanted to get the best
shave ever
i would need to just go ham for like
two weeks or a month and go really
extreme and then once i got to my
goal weight i would stop and i would
just be like i made it
and you know just go on back to my life
what i really needed to know what i wish
i knew was that i needed to look for
something that was
sustainable that i could enjoy that
wasn't extreme so that i could do it the
rest of my life
it would get me the results i want and i
wouldn't have to kill myself to get
those results because if you have to
kill yourself to get results like
burpees and all this stuff
dieting you're not going to be able to
keep the results if you even are able to
get to them in the first place
most of the time 99 of diets end in
failure adherence is too hard they're
too extreme
if you manage to get to that goal on an
extreme lifestyle plan
you can't keep it then because how are
you going to do that for the rest of
your life right
do you really want to eat zero carbs for
the rest of your life do you really want
to
um do three hours of cardio every day
for the rest of your life
probably not and there's probably going
to be times with your job or
relationships where you actually just
can't dedicate that much
energy emotional capacity and time to
that type of a lifestyle so i wish that
i had focused more
on okay what is the minimum
amount of work that i can put in that
will still get me a result
that i enjoy and i can keep up with and
i have that sustainable
mindset and that is going to make a huge
difference for you too it's just okay
what makes me happy what can i commit to
forever you know when you do make a
change to your current program
ask yourself is this something i could
do three months from now and not just
now
for example you can't diet forever so
it's probably not gonna work
so yeah that would be number six was
just sustainability
okay number five getting into nutrition
i wish that i knew
that nutrition would be about
eighty percent of the work because i
used to eat a lot of food and then try
to run it off and i was stuck in that
mentality i thought that fitness and
working out would be where i made the
most progress
but nutrition is really where you're
going to see the most progress
especially if you have a fat loss goal
you're not going to lose fat just from
working out in the gym
you're going to need to have another
level to your program
that includes nutrition and just better
education about nutrition
and awareness about your current
nutrition in order to get there
i would say and i say this to people i
still don't think it clicks
nutrition is going to be driving your
fat loss goals
you can't get there with fitness alone
and you can't outwork
a mediocre diet okay that leads me very
naturally into the next one
which is number four two week ab
challenges do not get you abs this was
something
i feel like i you know these are things
you know but you still
just do the things that you know won't
work it's like this really
horrible cycle and trap that we put
ourselves in i remember
doing two week ab challenges
10-day ab challenges insane number of
crunches
i would just spend most of my time doing
ab workouts there's a whole maybe
year where i would be in my college dorm
room doing like crunches and oblique
stuff and
and this goes for building a butt too
like any of the really
too good to be true type of challenges
you see they're like flat abs flat tummy
and in
in 24 hours two weeks a month even 30
days
no amount of crunches or ab work is
going to
give you visible abs yes they will work
the muscles
the muscles underneath the layer of fat
in your abdomen
however you're not going gonna be able
to see that work unless you lose fat
first
and doing ab exercises does not burn fat
so i wish i knew that because i wouldn't
have spent so many hours of my life
doing ab challenges
number three kind of getting down to the
wire here i had
no knowledge of macronutrients which are
your proteins fats
and your carbohydrates we call them pf
and the smallettix world protein
fats and fibrous carbs and
i didn't really know what they were i
didn't know that it was really important
that my nutrition reflect a certain
ratio of food groups to affect the ratio
of body fat to muscle mass in my body
composition and once i did a food
journal
and i started tracking my food not as a
lifestyle but just i got into
a new level of awareness about what i
was eating and what am i putting my body
what is this food and what is it doing
for me
once i started learning about that and
the best ratios for my body type as a
petite woman
i saw i had a huge breakthrough so i
wish that i had
gotten into macronutrients sooner and
not just macros like
we've talked about this so many times
but those macronutrients that
calculators that you find online are
terrible for petite women i have so many
videos about this they estimate that
petite women should eat like less than a
thousand calories a day because
it's just a calculator and an algorithm
and you're putting in smaller numbers
like
you know lower height and whatever it's
it's literally going to give you a
dangerous number
so when i got into macros eventually i
got my nutrition certification
and i started working with petite women
exclusively and now
we have today in petite power program
our own proprietary macronutrient ratios
that are specific to the petite female
female body type that work really well
for us that's what works today for me
and what works for all my hundreds of
clients
and i wish that i had just paid a little
bit more attention to the composition of
my diet
which has a huge effect on the
composition of your body
okay number two would be finding a
community
or some sort of accountability so that
you can keep showing up and being
consistent because no
plan no matter how good it is will work
unless you do it consistently
and you need to stick to a program for
four to six weeks minimum without
changing other variables to see if it's
working for you
that's the hardest part for people i
find and i would always like
start programs and stop them and i
couldn't stick to them and i would get
impatient
it's really important that you tell a
friend what you're doing
or even like taking that step further
when you have a community of women
and you're sharing your your actual
vulnerabilities with them like your
fears
your insecurities about your body and
they're also like in the same place as
you and they're like oh my gosh me too i
thought it was the only one
that is really motivating and when i
started my journey i didn't have that
and so i
started at instagram and i found you
guys and you guys helped motivate me to
show up every day
and today i've tried to create that
exact same feeling in the petite power
program in terms of
the structure of the community hundreds
of other petite women who are
like-minded who are
feeling you know we've gone through
similar life experiences and
are working towards similar goals that
is so important
for sticking to a plan because you have
more to show up for
and also you know that people are
counting on you you know that they're
going to check in with you
and say like did you work out today like
how are you feeling so finding
any kind of community touch point
preferably one that is similar to your
goals would be super motivating
and we made it to number one you guys
number one is
i wish that i had found or and i did
eventually i guess but i wish that i had
really honed in on what was different
about my body type as a petite woman
why our metabolisms are slower i wish i
honed into that earlier
and stopped comparing myself to taller
women doing diets and cardio and getting
results
so that i could just focus on me and
what works for my body type
and get results faster if i had just
focused on my body type instead of what
other women were doing or what whatever
instagram model how she got fit so
somehow i got to where i
i am today after going through all of
the trial and error but i would
really prefer it if you didn't have to
go through all the things that i did to
figure out what works for the petite
female body type
and what's sustainable and what actually
is enjoyable so you guys if
any of this resonates with you these
things that i wish i knew
have all been solved in the petite power
program
which is why i'm i believe so much in
the program and i know it works because
it solves all those problems
gives you a shortcut to achieving your
goals in three months versus
three years or longer or actually never
and that's what makes it so great is it
really ticks off all these boxes of a
program that is designed for your body
type the right workouts the right
nutrition the right amount of
accountability and coaching and support
and it's all based in actual real
research i'd love to invite you guys to
join us
this is going to be the last session
these are all live groups
that we do the last session of 2020 is
kicking off
in november and the doors are closing in
just two days so if you are interested
at all
i really urge you to take a look at the
link below you can also
schedule a call with me or one of my
teammates to talk about
if it's a right fit for you or not or
you can simply sign up if you feel like
this is it this is what you've been
waiting for
we would so love to help make this
process that is your fitness journey
more enjoyable and fun
and able to do it at home and still
connect with people online
so check out the link below and i hope
that you guys enjoyed
this video of the 10 things that i wish
i knew before starting my fitness
journey if you did
please support my channel and give this
video a like and subscribe for more
content tailored petite women and i will
see you guys
next week
you